On the Motherworld,
one thousand kings ruled
unchallenged in succession.
But in the royal
bloodline's lust for power,
they consumed everything
upon their planet.
The Realm marched its armies
into the vastness of space,
conquering everything
in its path.
The glory of the Motherworld
seemed without end
until the treachery of an assassin's
blade struck down the King and Queen,
severing the royal
bloodline forever.
In the chaotic aftermath
of the King's death,
several conquered planets on the
edge of the Motherworld's reach
began to whisper of revolution.
A senator named Balisarius used
the opportunity to seize power,
declaring himself regent.
As a show of strength, he
sent his most brutal commander
into the outer reaches of
the Motherworld's dominion
to find and crush without mercy
those who would call
themselves rebel.
Whoa.
Kora.
Kora!
I thought you were finished.
Everyone's up in the Longhouse.
- These are my last rows and I'll be done.
- All right.
Okay.
Oh. Uh…
Den was asking where you were.
He and his brother got
a big snow-elk, male.
He wanted you to see it
before he dressed it.
Why was he asking for me?
Well, you know, because he's…
I, I just thought…
I just thought…
You thought?
Move up.
It's been a while since we've had
fresh meat. Forgot how good it is.
Den said they saw
the summer herds returning.
Maybe three days' ride away.
- He was asking for you.
- I heard.
And, yes, it's quite impressive.
Which one? The animal?
Or…
Or the hunter?
Hey!
My people,
it is my duty as the
head of this community
to remind you that the gods of
the harvest demand a tribute.
Yeah.
An offering.
But we all know it is
the thrusting of hips…
…and the loud sounds of pleasure
that summon the seedlings to sprout.
Yeah!
So make love tonight.
For the harvest. For
the very food we eat.
- Yeah!
For the gods!
Let's have some music.
Some music to get
us in the mood.
Den is a good man.
You should be asleep.
He's the best hunter among us.
And a loyal friend.
Have you thought of a more
permanent relationship?
I know that he's
amenable to the idea.
He's asked me himself.
It's easy between us.
Does it have to
be more than that?
It's just, uh…
That would be your last step to becoming
a full member of this community.
I'm telling you,
this is home now.
I want that to be true.
You know,
the two seasons I've spent
here have given me happiness
that I don't deserve.
But understand, I
am a child of war.
To truly love and be loved, I…
I don't know if I'm
capable of either.
The very idea of love, of…
family was beaten out of me.
I was taught that
love is weakness.
And I…
I don't know how that
will ever change.
You should get some rest.
Yeah.
I noticed you
left early last night.
Were you tired?
That's right. I thought
I'd make it an early night.
I thought you were doing
your part for the harvest.
Because as I walked home,
I passed Den's house.
That's what it sounded like.
Sam, I don't know what
you're talking about.
I think you do.
What do you think they want?
Everything.
I don't care what the
potential upside might be,
a warship hanging over
our land cannot be good.
That's your problem. Your
first reaction is always fear.
The Motherworld
has deep pockets.
I'm simply saying maybe
we can get a better price
from our friends
in low orbit there,
rather than having to deal with
the cutthroats in Providence,
selling our grain
to God only knows.
Don't act like we don't know you've
been selling our surplus grain
to the enemies of
that ship up there.
I wonder what they would say if they
found out where our excess went last year.
Well, I'm no revolutionary.
They offered the best price. I
don't care about their cause.
Obviously.
Sindri, I don't have a
side, only this community.
That's my only loyalty.
And I say we start by showing
them goodwill, not fear.
That we are their partners,
not their adversaries, right?
Did you say "partner," Gunnar?
I did. Is that a problem?
That ship does not
represent prosperity.
Its purpose is to destroy,
to subjugate, to enslave.
Partnership is not in its vocabulary.
Give them what they ask for.
But volunteer nothing about
how fertile this land is.
And hope they leave
before digging too deep
into who Gunnar sold
last year's grain to.
- Right.
- I've heard enough. We volunteer nothing.
Is that clear?
They're here!
They're coming! They're
coming! They're coming!
Hello. I am Sindri,
father of this village.
Welcome.
I'm Admiral Atticus Noble.
Loyal representative
of the slain King.
I welcome you to
his warm embrace.
Please, father, tell me
about this beautiful village.
Walk with me up
to our Longhouse.
We can have a cup of ale and I
will tell you about life here.
Oh. Sounds perfect.
Lead the way.
We've carved
out a simple life here.
And we take pride in the
love of our community,
and the hard work it
takes to survive here.
Your people seem
healthy and well-fed.
As their leader, much of that
prosperity must be credited to you.
No, we are a community. The
credit is no one person's.
Oh, I know that in the best
of times, the credit's shared,
but when the stores are empty, you
know where the responsibility falls.
The weight of the
leader, I suppose.
So you… you understand the
feeling of, like, a father,
the need to feed
your children, yes?
I was hoping that your land and
the people of Veldt might help
as we search for a small band of
revolutionaries hiding in this system.
Who my commander, the Regent Balisarius,
bid me find and bring to justice.
We are humble farmers,
far removed from the
politics of the Motherworld.
And still you can serve. Hmm.
The rebels we seek have been
attacking our supply ports.
Led by a woman named Devra
Bloodaxe, and her brother Darrian.
Their capture's inevitable.
However, it's taken
longer than anticipated,
and we found ourselves
admittedly low on stores.
And as you know or may have heard,
an army runs on its stomach.
I was thinking of a partnership,
where you supply us with food.
Whatever you have
to spare, of course.
In exchange, you're
compensated at…
Let's call it triple the
market value, shall we?
With that windfall, you'll be able
to buy plenty of harvesters, robots,
and won't have to do this
difficult work by hand.
We believe that doing the work
by hand connects us to the land
and honors these sacred
fields that give us life.
There's peace of mind
knowing that you're invaluable
in the important mission of rooting
out enemies of the Motherworld.
- It's quite a proposal.
- Yes.
If only we had
some surplus to offer.
You see, the land is rocky
and yields barely enough
to feed ourselves.
So, it is with sincere apologies
that we must decline the offer.
However, we are grateful
for the presence of such a
benevolent and powerful protector.
Huh.
No surplus?
None at all?
Huh.
But your land looks so fertile.
Your fields seem larger than
what your population might need.
Of course, I understand
how it might seem.
Yet the scale of the planting
is evidence of the poor soil.
And our harsh winters only
add to the short season.
Now, what do you say we
share that cup of ale, eh?
Sorry.
It's just…
I mean, look at these
beautiful people.
I can't imagine these glowing complexions
are nourished by a barren field.
Now… who's the man or woman among
you who oversees the harvest?
There must be one whose thumb
is greener than the rest.
Someone?
Hmm?
Yes, sir.
- Ah.
- That is me.
Good.
Yes, I oversee the harvest.
Well, if these people
trust you, then so do I.
Trying to understand how I could be so
wrong about what this land could yield.
That's all.
Well, sir.
Sindri, our beloved father, is always
looking out for the welfare of our village
and so insists on keeping reserves
in case of famine or drought,
which, as you know, is the
responsibility of a leader.
But we have been
lucky these last few seasons.
Our surplus has been
more than we can store.
So, there might be
a chance that we can
spare a small amount.
Depending, of course, on
the scale of your needs.
Mmm. Good. Good.
Yeah, I mean, it's always wise to hold
some in reserve, isn't it, father?
Yep. Yep.
I am confused though.
Curious why you
should have me believe
this land could barely yield
enough to feed your people.
- Seems that wasn't entirely true.
- No, wait, wait.
Admiral, no one is
trying to mislead you.
Sindri simply has a slightly more
conservative view on reserves than I do.
But we're both excited about
a possible partnership.
Just bear in mind the reality
of what we can supply.
Father, who is this exactly?
- Uh… My…
- He's of no consequence.
I have been empowered by my
people to speak for them.
This man has no authority here.
You would be wise to ignore him.
Well… a rift.
It's not quite the idyllic
community I'd first seen.
Father, if I may
offer you some advice when dealing with
subordinates who need to be kept in place.
I find people can lose sight of the stakes
and sometimes need a gentle reminder
of just how those with power
deal with those without.
Admiral.
Sindri…
Please.
- No, I… I would never…
- It's fine.
- I…
- Let me show you what I mean.
Uh…
Please.
Admiral.
No, stop!
No!
What did you do?
When can I expect my harvest?
Oh…
I don't…
I said, tell me, partner,
when I can expect my harvest.
Uh… Um…
- Nine… nine weeks.
- Very well.
In ten weeks, I shall return.
You shall have my 10,000
bushels prepared for my ship.
Twelve… We barely
produce 12,000 bushels.
We'll starve to death.
I don't understand
what you want.
Well, it's simple.
I want everything.
All right, listen up.
I need all of this gear moved
to this big stone building.
That should suit us for now.
Marcus, you're gonna help me evict the
current residents from our new home.
Copy?
Copy you, boss.
Copy you.
Hello, everyone.
I am JC-1435 of the
Mechanicas Militarium,
defender of the King.
Correction, of the slain King.
It is my honor to serve.
I'm Private Aris.
We're moving supplies to that building,
if you wouldn't mind lending a hand.
Thank you, Private Aris.
That falls perfectly
into my protocols.
I'm talking to you, you
dirty drain turtle. Come here.
The hell you
waiting for? Get out, man!
Mmm.
Thank you.
Now, what in the name of the
old gods are you looking at?
I'm sorry, I was just waiting to
see if you needed some more water.
Some more water?
That's how I like 'em. Young,
strong enough to put up a fight.
- Boss.
- Hmm?
Look, they left us a Jimmy.
It's a Jimmy, man.
I didn't know we had
any of those left.
All right, careful. The ground's
uneven till you get to the bridge.
Thank you, Private Aris,
but I believe I can manage.
They won't
fight anymore.
What do you mean they
won't fight anymore?
It's something in
their programming.
Once the King was killed,
they just laid down their
weapons and refused to fight.
Just watch, no matter what
I do, he doesn't fight back.
Hey!
Careful with that stuff,
you stupid machine.
I'll turn you into scrap,
you dumbshit. You hear me?
You're not hearing me.
Hey! Stop.
What if I shoot
you instead, huh?
I could kill you right
now and no one would care.
- Would they?
- That's enough.
What do you say? Wanna die?
What's it, huh?
Come on, boy.
I said, enough.
Get these crates into
that house now, Private.
Yes, boss.
Are you malfunctioning?
No, sir.
Get up. Go to the
river. Clean yourself.
The rest of you, stop staring.
Get back to work.
Get back
to work, assholes.
That
includes you, Marcus.
You got it?
Excuse me.
Thank
you. That is kind.
- You're a soldier?
- Long ago.
Do you mind? I'm Sam.
Please.
Tell me, Sam. Do you know
the story of our slain King
and his beautiful daughter,
the Princess Issa?
I don't.
Well, you remind me of her.
In myth, she was called the
Chalice or the Redeemer.
She was pueri salvatoris.
And even before she was born,
I and my brothers pledged
everything we were,
everything that dwells
inside this metal skin,
to fight in her name.
So when word reached us on
some distant battlefield
that she, as prophesied, had been born
of flesh and blood into our world,
I felt a great warmth
for the universe
and trusted that she was to usher in
a new age of peace and compassion.
And bring us home.
She was magic.
Ah, yes. She
was more than magic.
On the day of her coronation,
she, along with our
honored King and Queen,
were assassinated in cold blood
by those they trusted most.
I fear we lost some measure of
our honor since that betrayal.
I'm afraid our
compassion, our kindness,
our very joy,
died with that young girl.
I think it lives in you.
This is your fault, Gunnar!
I didn't know that
he would kill them.
Doesn't matter. He's dead now.
What about the soldiers?
Next, it's gonna be the other house.
- I don't know.
- Stop, please.
How about we bring in the crop
and we fall on their mercy?
Yeah.
We make ourselves invaluable.
They wouldn't be able to kill us.
- They would need us.
- He's right.
Farming, that is our skill that
we can do, that they cannot.
If we show them how good we are,
they will be forced to spare us.
- Yes.
- Yes. Yeah.
- Do we agree? Our work fights for us.
- Yes!
- Our work fights for us. Yes?
It's settled then.
- We show them how valuable we are.
- Okay.
And when we have
fulfilled our side of the deal,
they will be forced to rethink
how much food they leave us.
- Yeah.
We can appeal to those gentlemen in
the granary, appeal to their humanity.
- Yeah.
- Good.
So… it's running.
Would've thought you'd
have had enough of that.
You heard them.
They're delusional.
They think those soldiers will show
mercy even after what they did to Sindri,
right in front of them.
When I found you in the
wreckage of that ship,
I considered leaving you.
I was afraid you could
bring trouble to us.
But do I for a moment regret
bringing you into our lives?
I do not.
You've become a part of us.
And yet, now you leave
when we need you most.
When your people need you.
I can't.
You mean, you won't?
This place is already lost.
But what if that could change?
What if we did fight,
not only us, but others?
- Who else would come here and fight?
- Others! Others!
Others that have reason to hate all
that the Motherworld represents.
Kora, you know this
universe better than I.
What if you could find the
warriors that Noble seeks?
The outlaws to
fight alongside us?
If I find warriors to fight for
Veldt, I give the village hope.
If I give them hope, they
fight and surely lose.
I won't have that
blood on my hands.
Nor will I throw my life away
the same as the rest of you.
Check this.
Hey, water girl!
- Come here.
- What is it?
Did you need some more water?
Just a… a little water.
Stop it!
Or what?
Help! Help!
Please, help!
Help!
- Shut up!
- Get off me!
- Help me!
- Shut up!
No. Please!
- Shut up.
- Someone help me, please! Please, help!
- Help me! Get off of me!
- Shut up!
Get off me!
Don't!
Attaboy. What do
you have in mind?
I'm gonna tie you to a post
and make you watch every day
as she turns from a
farm girl to a whore.
Marcus, my good man…
This all sounds nice,
but you're not
gonna do anything.
Not until I split
this sapling myself.
Then you may have her.
Then you can all have her.
Get off her!
Stop!
Stop.
Dessert. Perfect.
Definitely get her.
Please.
I will kill her.
Is that what you want? Huh?
Huh?
Ah, look who decided to join us.
Kill her. Kill them both.
What are you waiting
for? I gave you an order.
Kill this b…
We're gonna have to fight.
Kora, you may need this.
I found it at the
site of the crash.
I thought it was lost.
Our culture is not
for such weapons.
I feared it could be dangerous.
You were right.
Thank you.
Where will you go?
There is someone, a
general named Titus.
Once a hero of the Realm
who turned his own forces
against those of the Motherworld.
Last I heard, he was
still out there somewhere.
If I could find him and
men for him to lead…
Gunnar.
Last year, in Providence, you
sold grain to the resistance.
Yes. I met a man there who
introduced me to the insurgents.
The Bloodaxes.
- Would he still know how to find them?
- It's possible.
Then you'll take me to him?
Of course I will.
Hey! Bring
down one more uraki!
A general and an army?
We might stand a chance.
Be careful.
A safe journey… to
the both of you.
So you were a
soldier for the Motherworld?
Fighting for the Realm?
You could say that.
Of high rank, I suppose?
I mean, are you
wanted for desertion?
That and more.
Okay.
Anything else you wanna ask me?
They won't
just kill us, will they?
I mean, I understand
making an example of Sindri
to keep us in line.
But we're just farmers,
we're not a threat.
How can you know
they will destroy us?
When they first came to my
world, I was nine years old.
They never asked for anything.
There were no terms.
Only the lust
for destruction.
The Motherworld's forces were commanded
by a young general named Balisarius,
who relished the
ecstasy of combat.
The people of my world had
mounted a brave defense,
but it had served only to
enrage the young general
and gave him provocation to take
out that anger on the innocent.
I found myself face-to-face
with Balisarius,
who loved commanding his troops,
not from the conning
tower of his ships,
but on the battlefield itself.
Balisarius killed my entire
family and took me with him.
I don't know why he spared me.
Why, of the hundreds of
thousands that died at his hands,
he chose me to live.
Saw something in me, I suppose.
Someone to share in his pain.
They gave me the name Arthelais,
began my training and education in
the histories of the Motherworld.
And for five years, I lived on
that ship with its soldiers,
who were my only family.
No softness.
Only the hard lessons of war.
He took me often on
missions of diplomacy,
and I was his child.
I was his protégé.
I was his student.
I was one of them.
Daughter of a
decorated commander.
Friend to the King
and the royal family.
Living a life of privilege.
But regardless
of my social standing,
I was expected to do my duty.
To fight for the Motherworld.
At the Academy Militarium, they
encouraged us to find a lover.
Someone we would
defend with our lives
when the politics of
expansion became too abstract,
and the why of the conquest was
lost in sheer savagery of combat.
Come on! Let's go! Come on!
So, at the age of 18, I was
made an officer and given a command.
I fought for the
King on distant worlds
under the banner of a people
who murdered my entire family
and destroyed my world.
They had trained me,
broken me, and rebuilt
me in their image.
I'm only telling you this
so you know who I am.
You asked how I know
that they'll destroy you.
That's what I would do.
Hawkshaws.
Bounty hunters. They
work for the Imperium.
Wait.
Oh, no.
That's our guy. That's
the man we came to see.
The one that introduced
me to the Bloodaxes.
Did the Bloodaxes give you
any other way to contact them?
No. They said they were sheltered
on a planet called Sharaan.
- Protected by a king named Levitica.
- Levitica.
Come.
Carbost.
Anyway, I think our best
chance to find the Bloodaxes
is to contact the Leviticans.
It might expose us.
First we find General Titus,
then we'll see about your rebels.
Is this your owner?
Move on. He's not for sale.
Everything's for sale in this place,
so… how much?
You know, I have
a room upstairs…
…with relatively clean sheets.
That's a very generous
offer. But I don't think so…
I guarantee you, by morning,
you're gonna be
begging me for more.
I said, move on.
Come on, Mama.
- Whoa, whoa, whoa.
- Let him come and play.
You need to leave.
Listen close, you
jealous little bitch.
Now you listen close. I
told you, you need to leave.
I'm looking for information.
Has anyone here heard of General
Titus or know where he might be?
Of course, General Titus.
Crazy bastard. Turned his own men
on the Motherworld's forces
at the Battle of Sarawu.
Do you know of his location?
Last I heard, he was fighting
in the coliseum at Pollux.
I'd be careful if I
were you, little miss.
Last hunter who went looking for
him ended up with his head on a pike
outside the coliseum entrance
as a warning not to bother him.
So, he's on Pollux.
- That's your plan?
- That's my plan.
What?
Guess we need to find a
ship to take us to Pollux.
You're catching on.
Hey! Bitch!
Oh.
You should have killed me.
Now you're gonna die.
I'm gonna give you one chance
to just turn and walk away.
Uh-oh.
Are you gonna give
all of us one chance?
Kill her.
Impressive.
Were those Hawkshaws that
paid you working for the Motherworld?
- I don't like bounty hunters.
- I didn't ask.
And to be clear, I don't
like bounty hunters either.
So you're a gun for hire?
No. That's not my thing.
I'm more of an
opportunist, you might say.
A real hero, huh?
Wait.
Look. I heard you in there,
trying to get to Pollux.
I could help you.
Oh, understand, we're
just simple farmers.
We're searching for soldiers for
a fight against the Motherworld.
We have some money, but this
is not the one you get rich on.
Aye, I understand.
Still, pay me what
it's worth to you.
Soldiers for a fight
against the Motherworld?
Well, my name's Kai.
Come on, my ship's down at port.
Right. Setting
course for Pollux.
I need to stop
on Neu-Wodi first.
You know, there's
a rancher there.
He has a man that might
just work out for you.
Is he worth our time?
Because we can't
afford to waste any.
I think you'll like him.
You ever been off-planet?
No.
What did you do on the farm?
I oversee the harvest, and planting,
cataloguing seeds, and making sure that…
That sounds great. You
might want to hold on.
Whoo!
Whoa.
Come in.
Oh, Cassius, it's you. Good.
We received a
communiqué from the Hawkshaws.
They're requesting to
rendezvous with us.
Apparently they've
captured a creature
that has important information
about the insurgents,
Devra Bloodaxe and her brother.
Bloodaxe? Huh.
Well, that…
That's excellent, Cassius.
Inform me when they arrive.
- Yes, sir.
- Hey.
Well, if it isn't the
bastard from Saaldorun.
- What brings you all the way out here?
- I missed your smiling face.
You still got that man
chained in the back?
Tarak? Yeah, he's working
off his debt to me.
Another couple dozen
seasons, we should be square.
What's it to you?
You mind if we talk to him?
Could be a deal in it for ya.
Well, if there's
money to be made…
Hey!
Hey! Tarak!
These people
want to talk to you.
- What got that chain on your leg?
- A long road of mistakes.
But if you're here to accuse me
of crimes against the Motherworld,
I'm guilty as charged.
Take it up with him.
No. That's not why we're here.
We're here from a small village, and
we're looking to hire some fighters
to train and protect us against
a force from the Motherworld.
- I'm no friend of the Realm.
- Okay.
That's well-known.
And I'd gladly fight with you,
but… I have a debt on my name,
and I honor my debts.
What's he owe you?
Uh…
300,000 Darams ought to cover
any inconvenience I've suffered.
Oh, ya bollocks.
We don't have that
kind of money.
No money.
Well, I do love to gamble.
Here we go.
What's the bet?
If Tarak can break that creature out
there, his debts are squared with me.
But if he don't ride him,
you all get a chain
and a shackle.
That's the deal.
Grab it tighter!
Watch its tail!
Can you ride him?
Yeah… I can ride him.
Yank it hard! Don't
let him fight you like that!
Pull!
Drop your leads.
She'll tear you apart.
Drop your leads
and clear out now.
Suit yourself. Drop them.
I'm
not going to hurt you.
You're far from
home and so am I.
See, you and I…
…we are alike.
We've been hurt. Betrayed.
Our trust has been broken.
We both know fear.
Yet, the biggest
fear we both face…
…is the fear of ourselves.
That's it.
Let's show
them we're not afraid.
Let's show them we're more
than the shackles that bind us.
Easy. Easy.
Easy. Let's go. Let's go.
Whoo!
There.
Yeah.
It's okay.
Hickman, I've done as you asked.
Your debt is square with me.
Be good to her.
Go! Get out!
Hey!
No.
Hey.
No. No.
Attagirl.
Tarak! Let's go.
This was good. Anyone else
you know of along the way?
I might have a couple ideas.
So, what's the job?
We represent a village on
a small moon called Veldt.
This village faces the
threat of annihilation
by the armies of
the Motherworld.
We are looking for warriors
to join the fight
to protect them.
With your reputation,
we thought it might be something
you'd be interested in.
- Nemesis, please, please.
- Hold her.
Help her. Please, please.
Stay back.
I just want to talk. That's all.
I'm clearly distressed,
that's true.
But I'm not stupid.
I know why you're here.
You want the child.
Yes, I do.
You can't
have this one.
This one is mine.
She has a mother
who's waiting for her.
Who's missing her.
And why should I care
about that mother's pain
when no one is here for my pain?
This was my home before they came.
Taste the air.
It's poisoned my body.
It weakens my eggs, and now,
my children cannot emerge.
I deserve justice.
I understand.
But this is not the way.
There is a difference
between justice and revenge.
Is there?
I'm not so sure.
I know a mother's pain.
I know the loneliness
of that pain.
But you can't hurt that child.
I won't let you.
I believe you. But understand.
I will kill this child.
And I will keep killing until
every mother weeps tears of regret
for ever having come
to the mines of Daggus.
Shit!
Come on.
Let's go.
Come. Back up! Back up!
Come here.
Wow. That was…
That was amazing.
Do not celebrate this.
There's no honor in this.
This could easily be
any of you lying here
in the gutter of
some forgotten world,
in the name of revenge.
You would do well
to remember that.
That was good of you
earlier. With the child.
- I was just trying to help.
- Yes, but it's not natural for some.
It is for you.
Back home, you saved
Sam without hesitation.
Kindness is a virtue
worth dying for.
I believe that.
I didn't always.
I told you how I fought
on countless worlds.
Well, word of my victories
reached my adopted father.
And the King.
For my
loyalty and service,
I was promoted to the Elite
Guard of the Royal Family.
The appointment was
engineered by my father.
I couldn't have known
it was something more.
I was given the honor
of being the bodyguard
to Princess Issa.
The princess was named
after an ancient Queen Issa,
the Lifegiver.
In the old stories of the queen,
it was said that she had
the power to give life.
It seemed a myth or a metaphor
created in response to the
generations of war and conquest.
Yet, the story still captured
the imagination of the people.
And it was believed that the princess,
my princess, might have that same power.
I saw on more than one occasion
things that I… couldn't explain.
Things that made me think
that she was different.
Special.
The King once said to me…
When she becomes queen,
I believe she'll bring a
compassion that I've lost
after all these
hard years of war.
"It will be the
dawn of something better."
- I think your friendship makes her safer.
- That our friendship made her safer.
I believed in her.
In her kindness.
I believed in her
ability to save us.
The great General Titus.
Thank you.
Okay.
Oof.
Are you sure this
is a good idea?
Let's clean him up
and get him sober.
- Yeah, that'll do it.
- Come on.
- You got him.
- Get off me!
What do you think you're doing?
That's enough. Thank you.
Did you command the Eastern
ranks for the Old King?
Are you not General
Titus? A legend.
I don't know what you're
running your mouth about.
Why can't you just
leave me alone?
Because my best hope is that long-ago
general is still in front of me.
What do you want from me?
My men are dead because
of my surrender.
I'm tired of reliving
that nightmare every day.
Now, please, leave me
and let me die in peace.
I don't think you're
meant to die here…
General.
Stop calling me that.
I have no rank, no privilege.
I'm here to make you an offer.
To give you a chance
at redemption.
- I am beyond redemption.
- I have no time for pity!
What about all the dead
men you once commanded?
What about them?
If not redemption,
what about revenge?
This is the man who knows
where the insurgents are?
It is, sir.
Well, I'm listening.
You'll let me go if I
tell you what I know?
I'll set you free,
you have my word.
I haven't seen Devra
Bloodaxe for a full season,
but at the time they were on Sharaan,
under the protection of a king called…
Levitica.
Go on.
This was some time ago, but
they were definitely there.
Talk to him, to Levitica.
I certainly will. Thank you.
Thought we had a deal!
Yes, we did.
You're free.
Dissect his brain and see if
we can find out any more information.
Then we'll go pay our
respects to King Levitica.
Yes, Admiral. I'll
set a course for Sharaan.
Let's go.
Your patience is
appreciated and I can assure you…
…Devra is aware
of your presence.
A decision when to
receive you is imminent.
Thank you, Levitica,
honored king.
We await their arrival.
Look.
Farmer, why would you contact us from
this unknown and flagless vessel?
I was assuming we had a level
of trust after our last meeting.
We bought your grain
to feed our fighters.
Do not confuse your business of commerce
with our business of revolution.
I understand.
Your coming here is a great risk
to us all and to our benefactor.
But we are no longer
in need of your grain.
King Levitica's kindness has been
more than enough to sustain us,
so I suggest you
leave immediately.
We're not
here to sell grain.
Gunnar's village was
visited by a Dreadnought
that threatens its
very existence.
I have recruited these warriors
and given my word to bring them
back and defend the farmers.
- But we're running out of time.
- What?
This handful? Against
a Dreadnought?
That's why we have come.
You have men and ships.
With you we could
mount a real defense.
And, of course, we can pay you
with the surplus from our harvest.
It's all we've got.
My forces
against the King's Gaze?
That's suicide.
That ship cannot be destroyed
by a few dozen fighters.
That ship and the men aboard
it are world destroyers.
I'm sorry, it's impossible.
This man is
not a revolutionary.
He's a simple farmer.
But commerce or not,
his people toiled with their bare
hands to grow the grain that fed you.
All of you!
And because of that transaction,
their village is now
threatened by Admiral Noble,
in pursuit of your revolution.
I see.
I will go.
Thank you.
Brother, a word.
Our victories, what few there have
been, have been tactical ones.
We cannot fight in the open
against the King's Gaze.
If the farmer found us, it
won't be long before Noble does.
And I will not allow another
world to fall in our name.
And what of those you command?
Their
lives are theirs.
Hmm.
These people, they've
come to us with
nowhere else to turn.
They come…
…seeking our help…
…to stand against a
Dreadnought of the Motherworld.
Is that not what we stand for?
Are they not who we once were?
If we will not stand with these
defiant farmers to protect their home,
then the revolution
is meaningless.
Under free will,
who among you is willing
to die for what we believe
rather than hide behind it?
Milius.
Why am I not surprised?
Who is going to make sure you'll
return in one piece, if not me?
Thank Levitica and
leave this planet.
Sister, until we meet again.
Maybe this isn't
suicide after all.
Why would he agree to help you?
Bloodaxe? You think
they shouldn't?
It just seems short-sighted.
I mean, he weakens
what little of
whatever word you wanna
use for it there is…
Resistance, insurgency.
For what, Kora?
The chance to get
obliterated by a Dreadnought?
Guilt, it's a powerful thing.
Aye, guilt. The
underbelly of honor.
I think I might've
had that once.
Honor.
Would you believe that?
It's true.
I mean, what do you figure?
I got ten, fifteen more seasons at
most, before I steal from the wrong man.
Get stabbed to death by some dog-headed
son of a bitch in a bar fight.
It's really your fault, anyway.
Makin' me wanna be
an honorable man.
If you had more resisting
power to speak of,
you wouldn't need me
to join you so badly.
You're willing to fight with us?
Since you're beggin'.
Kai, we're not.
Well, since you're asking, then.
If you'll allow me.
Wow.
There is one complication.
The shite in the cargo hold.
I got buyers
waiting in Gondival.
Aren't the kinds known
for their patience.
Might be wise to sever my
ties to life as a thief
before we go picking a
fight with a Dreadnought.
Besides, you said
yourself you need me.
- I did not say that.
- I think you did.
I'll set the course and let
'em know we're on our way.
Oh, shit, does that make
me one of the good guys?
I beg you…
Please!
I've told you the truth.
I have nothing more.
Right.
The truth…
…that you took them in, known
enemies of the Motherworld,
mended their wounds,
repaired their broken ships,
all out of your moral
code of honor and charity.
Our civilization has lived
and thrived for 10,000 years
with honor and charity as
its most valued tenets.
Yes. Yes, honor and charity.
Do you see that?
That ship is named
the King's Gaze.
It was named to honor
our slain father.
So…
honor I understand.
Charity, I do not.
Our King showed charity to
an off-worlder like yourself
and was slaughtered
for his charity.
So, we named the ship to remind us
of the power in that benevolent gaze
that was lost to charity.
And to remember that, if by God's will,
that gaze should fall upon us and be held,
for even the
briefest of moments,
it could change
your life forever.
Today, it falls upon you.
We are cleared to engage.
Confirmed.
Fire at will.
Sir, we received a
message from one of our Hawkshaws.
They're closing in
on the Bloodaxes.
Ah.
Finally, some good news.
Well, prepare the hyperlaunch.
I'll go ahead and personally
retrieve the treasonous dogs myself.
And what orders for
the King's Gaze, sir?
Well, once you've
razed the planet,
we'll rendezvous, extract the exact
location of the rest of the insurgents,
and destroy them
once and for all.
Yes, sir.
I'm pretty sure
Kai said these boxes.
- We've got one.
- Okay.
Aye, just take the gray ones.
- They're all marked.
- All right.
For God's sake, don't look inside.
I'd hate you to think less of me.
Ho!
Where do you want them?
- There's space behind the bridge.
- Done.
All right, put them the
other side of the bridge.
Aye, let's unload and get
off this godforsaken rock.
I'll be happy to leave
this life behind.
Good.
Just wanna make sure
that one's on the manifest.
Pilots!
Once you tie off those ships,
see if you can get some fuel.
And you two, keep
eyes from above!
How we lookin'?
Everything is done.
- All right, let's move.
- Yes.
On your mark.
This isn't right.
On your knees.
Now is not the
time to be a hero.
When?
On Veldt, in Providence,
the first time I heard your story.
Thought with your ideals of resistance
I could round up a couple of heads.
Tarak for instance.
His world enslaved.
Then there was Nemesis.
Her whole family slaughtered.
But General Titus?
Have you any idea how
much he alone is worth?
They would've all
jumped at the chance
to exact any small
vengeance against the Realm.
Even if the payment was
only a sack of grain.
Then there was you. Kora.
Or should I call you Arthelais?
The biggest prize of them all.
Do you know what the
Motherworld did to my planet?
They didn't just destroy it.
They tortured every
man, woman, and child.
Left them clingin' to life as they
turned them to ash from low orbit.
You know what that taught me?
Never set foot on the
wrong side of history.
Is that what
you think we're doing?
No.
You've chosen the side that doesn't
even make it to the history books.
What happened to honor?
What did happen to it?
Piece of shit.
Well, who all have we got here?
Who indeed?
Commander Bloodaxe.
Leader of the very insurgency
the King's Gaze was sent to this
backwater of the galaxy to capture.
He alone will secure
my seat in the Senate.
I would be remiss if I failed to mention
we are in the presence of royalty.
Tarak Decimus.
Or should I say
Prince Tarak?
General Titus.
Needs no introduction, does he?
His actions at the Battle
of Sarawu precede him.
The farmer.
The ambitious farmer.
I pride myself on
never being surprised.
And yet, here I am.
I understand why all of
them are here… but you.
What could you have possibly hoped to
gain by mounting such a… feeble stand?
Tell me.
Oh, yes.
The legendary swordswoman known
only by the name of Nemesis.
Assassinated 16 high-ranking
Imperial officers
and their security details.
All in a hunt to avenge
her slaughtered children.
Oh…
Of course.
Now I thought I recognized
something in you,
down in that filthy village.
Out there, amongst all
those simple people,
the most wanted fugitive
in the known universe.
Scargiver. Arthelais.
Do you know what you've done
for me, Arthelais, truly?
Assembling yourself as such?
When I lay your bodies at
the foot of the Regent,
I'll be a hero of the Realm.
They'll write songs of
my feats of courage.
It's not like I didn't
do all the work.
Let's move this along, shall we?
Let's transport them paralyzed,
in case anyone's feeling frisky.
On your feet. I've
got a job for you.
Look… Okay, okay.
You play your cards right, you at
least might make it out of this alive.
You're sick.
And you're a coward.
All you have to
do is pull the trigger.
I won't do it.
Yes, you will.
You can do it. Just
pull the trigger.
I know you're in love with her.
Kora.
Gunnar.
I'm so sorry.
You can do it.
Pilots! To your ships!
Cut me
loose! We gotta go!
No!
This is perfect.
They gave their lives for us.
They believed in their cause.
What better thing to die for?
And I should have
died with them.
I know a thing or two about
the guilt of carrying on when those
you've sworn to fight with are gone.
Honor them.
With everything that
you can from now.
Carry them.
This was a blow to the
Motherworld, what we did this day.
Criminals, nobodies, standing
against a machine of war.
This small act of defiance
gives voice to the voiceless.
This is more than just a fallen
prick officer and some of his men.
It's the beginning of something.
What will they do now?
The crews of the Imperium are
not known for their bravery.
After the death of an admiral,
protocol will demand the ship's return.
That's good.
We still get paid, I presume?
A deal is a deal.
Payment awaits us on Veldt.
I owe you thanks, Gunnar. You
know, I never did trust that pilot.
We all owe him thanks.
He saved us.
I've been wondering.
Is what that dead
bounty hunter said true?
That you're Arthelais?
Kai was a liar and a thief who
nearly sold you all for a profit.
Anything more you want, General?
Don't call me General.
Hey, you see it?
There.
That's our village.
Home.
I never had a place
to put to the word.
It's almost a shame you killed
that son-of-a-bitch Noble
and we don't have to fight.
This would've been a
beautiful place to die.
Yes, it would.
Let's go.
Ready
him for transmission.
Balisarius is standing by.
Sir, should
we stabilize him first?
No, we will
not keep the Regent waiting.
Neurolink.
Link is established.
Connection complete.
Signal is strong.
Send him.
Master.
Balisarius.
I have found her.
I have found Arthelais.
The Scargiver.
- You're certain it's her?
- I am, my Lord.
She was in the company of the disgraced
General Titus and Darrian Bloodaxe.
We are close to capturing them.
Tell me, Commander. Did you think
that this would be good news?
That my daughter, Arthelais,
one of the most dangerous
and decorated warriors
in the history of armed conflict, is
now part of a blossoming insurgency?
I'm supposed to be happy
that she's joined forces with the genius
battlefield commander, General Titus?
Sir, she is within our grasp.
Let me bring you her head.
In truth, I fear the
head most endangered here is yours.
You will crush this insurgency
to the last man, do you hear me?
And then you will
capture my daughter alive
and bring back my
precious child to me.
So that I may crucify her
in the shadow of the Senate.
If you cannot bring her to me,
then the one whose
public execution
will send shivers down the
spines of the senators,
and whose screams will
echo down its marbled halls
will be yours.
Did
he make it back?
I don't know.
I have no heartbeat
or brain function.
Hit
him with everything.